The Project Gutenberg EBook of The World Above, by Martha Foote Crow

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The World Above
       A Duologue

Author: Martha Foote Crow

Release Date: September 15, 2019 [EBook #60297]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WORLD ABOVE ***




Produced by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)









                            The World Above


[Illustration: The World Above A Duologue _by_ Martha Foote Crow The
Blue Sky Press Chicago]




                  _Of this first edition of The World
                  Above there have been printed five
                  hundred copies on Van Gelder
                  hand-made paper and twenty-five
                  copies on Japan vellum, of which
                  this is number 171_


                                                     Copyright, 1905, by
                                                     The Blue Sky Press

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            THE WORLD ABOVE.


The scene is laid in a shadowy and mystic place known to the dwellers
there as The Darker Realm. It has been built and burrowed from time
immemorial far down underneath some great, beautiful, sunny, human
metropolis, called The World Above, but of this light-crowned city those
who inhabit the subterranean retreats of The Darker Realm know but
little, of its happy days and doings they can but dream.

The galleries of The Darker Realm are like an interminable network—one
could so easily be lost there! Some parts are new and are built up
smoothly with polished stone; other parts are old—so old and irregular
that it seems as if they must have been set there many, many centuries
ago. Perhaps the place has been an ancient mine where dim-eyed people
sought the turquoise gem for their devil-altars; perhaps it was once a
human town over which volcanic ashes and desert sands have fallen and
drifted for many a long century. Unexhumed and rediscovered, it lies
there, and the dwellers in The World Above find use for the water-way
conduits that thread its interminable passages.

There are two persons in the story: Jean, a young man, a workman in The
Darker Realm, and Angelica, a young maiden, daughter of another workman
in the same.


                                Scene I.

(A place in The Darker Realm. The background forms a cave-like enclosure
or gallery with an arched roof composed of massive blocks of fitted
stone. At the center of the enclosure is a tall well-sweep with other
gigantic structures. Chains and tubes range along the walls and ceiling.
At the right there is an opening into one of the larger conduits, and
over the opening a trap-door is held up diagonally by a long dusty rope
with a pulley attaching it to the wall above. From above this opening
dangles a cord that floats out tensely, showing that a strong current of
air is coming down through the conduit and is flowing out into the
gallery. Near the front a foot-bridge crosses a gulley in the floor of
the passage; one can see the glint of the water flowing below. At the
left, high up on the wall, juts forth a crane and on this hangs an iron
lantern from which a sickly light is given forth. This is almost the
only center of light in the place, though it is possible to see that
there is some kind of a lamp beyond the half-open door of a windowless
hut which is dimly perceived at the back of the gallery. Also, above the
foot-bridge, there is a flue in the ceiling, and through this flows
downward a faint, pale light, almost imperceptible, like the dimmest
twilight. At the back of the gallery, arched openings on either side
lead to passages of impenetrable blackness.

From the door of the hut a young girl emerges and passes across the
gallery. She hums a strain of the hymn Varina, and as she comes along,
she touches the wall lightly with her white finger tips and walks with a
hesitating step as if the floor were slippery, or as if she were
accustomed to find her way more by the sense of touch than by that of
sight. She is a slender and delicate looking girl, and the pupils of her
eyes are large and dark as if they were trying to gather all the light
they could. Her garment is a poor, dull-colored thing, and her face and
her two hands are the only spots of pure white in the whole picture. She
comes forward slowly, touching the wall sensitively and sings, as she
approaches, in a voice like a soft, sweet flute, and yet more pathetic
than any words can describe.)

[Music: _Angelica_—“There is a land of pure de-light,”—]

(She comes forward to the bridge and looks down into the water.)

[Music: _Angelica_—“Where saints immortal reign;”]

(She looks up toward the flue; the dim radiance there falls like a halo
upon her head. She whispers:)

_Angelica_—“Saints immortal!” I wonder what “saints immortal” may be!

(She looks around wonderingly and then looks down at her hand and turns
a ring upon her finger, and then holds it up to the pale light from
above, and smiles as she sings the second line of the stanza.)

[Music: _Angelica_—“Infinite day excludes the night, and pleasures
banish pain.”]

(Then she turns and takes in long breaths of the air from the fresh
current, lifting her shoulders as if she enjoyed the mere pleasure of
breathing.)

[Music: _Angelica_—“There ev-er-last-ing spring a-bides,”]

(She rests her face upon her hand meditatively.)

_Angelica_—This air—it must be the “everlasting spring” that mother
sings about, it is so sweet!—for when I ask mother what “spring” is, she
says it is where the air is fresh and sweet. Ah, yes! I would rather be
out here, rather than in the close room, since mother is so sad and will
not talk with me. Here the air comes rushing down the conduit and pours
out into the gallery and fills me with such joy that I can scarcely
breathe enough of it! I breathe and breathe it in! But—(she stops,
listening, and holds her hand to her heart) surely, surely that is
Jean’s step! It comes nearer! It turns down the Branch of Blind Alleys.
It is, it is! Jean! Jean! (Then with an effort to gain composure of
tone—) Why, Jean, is that you? (A boyish-looking fellow comes forward;
he is dressed in workman’s clothes and has all the marks of sordid labor
upon his frame. His body is muscular but his complexion shows the pallor
that suggests the cellar-grown plant. His eyes glow, however, with happy
expectancy as he moves swiftly toward Angelica and takes her hands in
his.)

_Jean_—Angelica! Do not pretend you did not hear my step; I saw you
listening. I could tell from the very Court of Miracles what you were
thinking of if I saw only the bend of your head! But look you! I am
here! Jean! It is Jean!

_Angelica_—I know. (She turns and seems to make up her mind to throw all
ruse aside; with a gesture of welcome she cries:) Ah, I thought I was
never to see you again!

_Jean_—I thought so, too. I have wished to see you!

_Angelica_—Why, then, were you so long?

_Jean_—I was working with old Jacques over in the Old Freestone Branch
beyond the Court of Miracles.

_Angelica_—(She shudders.) The Old Freestone? O, why did you go there?

_Jean_—Some one must go, Angelica, and I was the youngest and strongest.
If I had not gone, old Jacques would have had to as he was the only one
that understood the buttressing of the ancient wall, and I wouldn’t have
had old Jacques made to go for worlds!

_Angelica_—No indeed, old Jacques that saved your life and pulled you
out of the Great River!

_Jean_—Yes, dear old fellow! And it’s dangerous over there. You know
they made the walls of the Old Freestone Branch out of blocks of stone
so large that when a break starts and they begin to fall, it is not safe
to be working among them.

_Angelica_—Yes, I know; Didon was lost there. Ah, poor Didon!

_Jean_—Yes, alas! But do not think of Didon; think of me! I am here
again! I came to see you!

_Angelica_—But not for so long, for so long! And all the time I feared
and wondered what I should do if you should fall from a bridge into the
water, or should be caught beneath a break, or should have illness, or
should get drawn into the quicksands.

_Jean_—Ah, do not think of these things! Think only of the pleasant
side! Think that we are together!

_Angelica_—But how can I think of this when I remember that any moment
you may be snatched away from me and I never see you again! Do you not
remember how when a stone in the wall crumbled away and a rivulet burst
into the new tunnel that the Triangle Branch men were working on, and
you with them, how the rivulet all in a moment swelled into a stream
that rushed forward with a roar we could hear away here, and how it tore
down walls and bridges and air flues in its course, and how you nearly
got caught in it? You barely escaped, Jean!

_Jean_—Yes, I know it, Angelica.

_Angelica_—And ah, if you should fall beneath a break, or get caught in
a quicksand, if you should leave us quite alone, mother and me! Wild
terror comes over me every time I try to think it out.

_Jean_—Do not try to think it out, dear Angelica. Put your hand on my
arm. Feel how strong it is! I shall work for you.

_Angelica_—Now that father is gone, I may need to have you work for me.

_Jean_—Your father gone? Where?

_Angelica_—Three days now he has not come home.

_Jean_—But he will surely come.

_Angelica_—Yes, if he be not caught in a break!

_Jean_—Well, if he comes not, I shall still be here, strong and loving.

_Angelica_—(Timidly) Loving?

_Jean_—Yes, loving; why not? Have I not always been loving? From the
first day I ever came into the Great River Branch and pushed my
tool-cart along with old Jacques and saw you sitting there on the
doorstep of your hut, saw you there but a minute when your mother called
you in because she heard strange voices outside and the jingle of
tools,—from that day have I not loved you and thought of you as my most
sacred dream?

_Angelica_—(Clasping her hands) Have you, oh have you? Have I been to
you like a dream?

_Jean_—And did you not think of me at all? Do you not remember that day
too?

_Angelica_—I do not remember that day, I think, but I remember other
days. I remember when we played together down where the Branch of Blind
Alleys juts into the Great River Gallery. I had caught a little lizard
and kept it to play with and called it Prince, and along came Didon,
heedless, cruel Didon, and he gave my poor Prince one knock on the head.
What is a lizard? he cried, and you—do you remember what you did?

_Jean_—Well, what I did was to give Didon a good thrashing. I beat him
well and he deserved it.

_Angelica_—(Sighing) Ah, poor Didon!

_Jean_—Do not say “poor Didon.”

_Angelica_—But alas, he suffered and lost his life in the War, and all
because of my Prince, my poor little dead lizard. Yes, that was really
the cause of the war, wasn’t it? The Blind Alley men taking up my side
and the Triangle men and the Great River men on his, and then the fight
going on and taking in other Branches besides.

_Jean_—So we got tired of the lizard-play!

_Angelica_—We did indeed.

_Jean_—Yet it was good play while it lasted, wasn’t it?

_Angelica_—Yes, it was good play while it lasted, but I have noticed
that the things we play with get so after awhile that we do not care to
play with them anymore. Have you noticed that?

_Jean_—No, I never did; but then, you are the great noticer.

_Angelica_—But I think you are!

_Jean_—Well, out of our lizard-play came the war, which went on——

_Angelica_—Until the Break!

_Jean_—Yes, the Great Break when the wall fell in and poor Didon was
crushed under the toppled mason-work.

_Angelica_—That made all our wars seem useless and small, didn’t it? But
do you think that the great pressure of the crowd of boys and men from
the Branch of Blind Alleys that took up your side and fought with
Didon’s crew, made the gallery wall cave in? Or did it just cave in of
itself?

_Jean_—How can I tell? It may have been either, or both. The walls are
always falling in the Old Freestone galleries.

_Angelica_—It is this never knowing the causes of things that worries
me! Now when the water began to flow right in to the top of the Main
Cross Tunnel and all the men were so frightened by that, as if the whole
Darker Realm were to come to an end, why were they so much more
frightened than usual? And I overheard them talking about a diver going
down from above. Now if a diver was to go down from above to stop the
hole, where was he to dive from?

_Jean_—O, the explanation of all that is easy enough. I think there must
have been a river above there and a bridge.

_Angelica_—A bridge? (in astonishment) a bridge above there? A bridge
like this one I am standing on? Are there bridges above us? Is there a
world above with bridges and galleries and air-conduits and lizards and
lizard-wars and—and breaks?

_Jean_—(Laughing) O no! I am certain that if there were a world above,
there wouldn’t be any wars and breaks in it!

_Angelica_—I am sure I don’t see how you know that. You can’t imagine
anything else for the people to do but roll tool-cars, clean pipes, and
repair breaks, can you?

_Jean_—I can’t imagine it, no; but I am sure if there were a world above
it would not be so sad and dark as this.

_Angelica_—Dark? What does that mean?

_Jean_—Isn’t this The Darker Realm?

_Angelica_—Oh! I see! And yet I am not sure that I _do_ see!

_Jean_—Why, dark is everything that isn’t light, everything that isn’t
lamps and cressets, everything that isn’t your face, everything that
isn’t you! If there’d been a world above, you’d have been in it, not
here!

_Angelica_—(With enthusiasm) Ah, I wish I had!

_Jean_—(In a surly voice) I don’t.

_Angelica_—Why not?

_Jean_—Because I want you here—here with me!

_Angelica_—Oh, yes, that!—but if we both could go to The World Above?

_Jean_—Don’t talk such nonsense; of course there isn’t any such thing,
and what’s the use of bothering our heads with puzzling and wondering?

_Angelica_—Yes, that’s just it, wondering! I can’t help wondering.
There’s something in my head that goes on wondering and wondering. My
wondering-machine will keep going, and I cannot stop it. It makes me
very unhappy and yet I do not wholly want it to stand still. Now, I
can’t help wondering what these fearful things mean, these breaks. Do
you never wonder?

_Jean_—Wonder? No. I wonder at nothing. I don’t see anything to wonder
at.

_Angelica_—Now, I wonder all the time. I want to know the meanings of
things. What makes this water flow, what makes the lamp burn, who made
this cloth of my dress, these walls and foot-paths, the cressets and
windlasses and charcoal-burners. I asked mother if she made the cloth
and she said “no.” I said, “who did?” She said, “how should I know?” I
said, “where did it come from?” She said, “Father brought it.” “Where
did he get it,” I said. She said, “I didn’t ask him,”—and not a word
more would she say. Where do my dresses come from, this cloth-stuff, do
you know? Do they not come from The World Above?

_Jean_—Why, no. They just come from your mother. She sews them for you.
And the stone in your precious ring, that Jacques calls an opal, do you
know where it came from?

_Angelica_—(Eagerly) From The World Above?

_Jean_—(Very impatiently) Oh, no! _I_ gave it to you. It came from me. I
loved you and I gave it to you.

_Angelica_—But where did _you_ get it?

_Jean_—I found it in the Court of Miracles at the edge of the Great
Pool, of course, where we are always finding things. We never found
anything that was not found there, of course, for that is the Great
Place-of-Finding-Things.

_Angelica_—Do you believe that?

_Jean_—Believe what? That this is the Great Place-of-Finding-Things?
Why, of course! How can you keep from believing what you feel with your
very own hands and hear with your own ears? When I took hold of the
scoop something slipped over the handle and I felt a little knob-like
thing go between my fingers. I caught at it and cleaned away what was
tangled around it and gave it to you.

_Angelica_—And I washed it and washed it and washed it, and made it
clean, quite clean, and lo, it was a ring just right for my finger, for
my finger, finger, finger! (She flourishes her hand joyously with the
ring upon it.)

_Jean_—Let me see it again; let me take it and look at it.

_Angelica_—Oh, you cannot take it! I cannot be without it one moment, I
love it so.

_Jean_—But let me, me only, look at it one moment. (He snatches at her
hand and draws it to him and kisses it impulsively.)

_Angelica_—I thought you wanted to look at the ring!

_Jean_—I forget the ring when I think of you, dearest Angelica. Can’t
you forgive that? Can’t you? Can’t you?

_Angelica_—I would try, perhaps; but now, look at it! look! (She holds
up the ring to the lamp’s light.) See the wonders in it?

_Jean_—I see no wonders; it is just a little round drop of dull white
set on a band of gold.

_Angelica_—Little round drop of dull white indeed! See there! See there!
Do you not see a streak of something, like the pain that now and then
shoots down through one’s shoulders?

_Jean_—No, there is no streak in it.

_Angelica_—But now, _now_, see it! Try it in this light, in this pale,
pure light that shines down through the flue from above.

_Jean_—Ah, yes, I do see it now; now that you hold it in the light of
the flue, I see it; now, a darting of red!

_Angelica_—Of red? What is red?

_Jean_—O wonderful eyes!—Don’t you know that red is a color?

_Angelica_—A color? What is a color?

_Jean_—Why, a color is—is, well, for instance, red; look at it!—_that_
is a color.

_Angelica_—But it changes. Is that, now—see!—is that a color too? Can
you not catch the other dartings?

_Jean_—Yes, I see; that is blue; yes, that is a color, too. Now I can
see yellow, orange and purple; these are the colors; all the colors
there are, are here.

_Angelica_—How do you know, now, that they are all the colors there are?

_Jean_—I know because these are all the colors I have ever seen, and of
course, then, they are all there are.

_Angelica_—But how did they come there? What put the dartings in there?
What are they for?

_Jean_—Come there? What for? What silly questions! Why, this is an opal,
and it is the nature of opals to have these colors in them and to dart
about in this way.

_Angelica_—And are these beautiful colors to be seen only in the opal?

_Jean_—Of course, where else should one see them? Did you ever see them
anywhere else, child?

_Angelica_—No, I never did, but I thought perhaps you might, since you
have traveled so far, so far beyond the Great Cloaca Branch and the
Branch of Blind Alleys and even beyond the Great Cross. (She holds the
opal in the light and turns and turns it.) It seems to me that I dimly
perceive other dartings than these you have named, although perhaps I am
mistaken. But it is very beautiful and I love it. (A pause.) Well, well,
it is all a mystery, I see I must have a new pair of eyes or a new sense
of some kind to know all about this wonderful thing you call color.
(Brightening) But I know I shall have them some day, else why did I get
the opal and how was it that I found the shooting, pain-like rays in my
opal? Jean, if I had made the world, I would have made it all opals! I
wish I _could_ make a world! O, but everything should be beautiful if I
could make life!

_Jean_—(Patronizingly and coaxingly) Make life? What do you mean by
that?

_Angelica_—Why, make life, make things and people! Oh, if I could but
make things and people!

_Jean_—I don’t see what you could do with them when you made them.

_Angelica_—Oh, I would have them live and laugh and have lights, lights,
all they wanted of lights!

_Jean_—But what for?

_Angelica_—Oh, because I love people and I love lights. I could never
have too many lights. Oh, how I love them! When I wake up from a long
sleep and see that mother has set the lamp a-burning I could shout for
joy. Then if I had lights enough, I know I would not have to bring my
opal out to the bridge to make it throw forth all its dartings. If I
could make a world, I would have things very different from this.

_Jean_—Should I be there?

_Angelica_—Oh, yes, you would be there but (with just a little touch of
coquetry) I should not pay much attention to you. (Seriously) I should
be so busy looking around at all the beautiful opal-colored things. Now
for myself I would have a skirt of red and a sacque of blue and the
walls of my hut should be covered with red and purple all swaying and
melting as in the ring, and I would have the shades that sweep from
color to color, the softest for my ceiling and beneath my feet the
richest and warmest. Thus should my world have been, had I made the
world!

_Jean_—Do not worry your mind with these visions and wonderings, dearest
Angelica. You will become so excited you will be ill, dear.

_Angelica_—Oh no, I shall not be ill, I shall be well! It makes me
almost believe that there is such a world above when I think of how well
I could be if I were in it. For, why did I have eyes that long for
light, light, more light, if I was never to have more light?

_Jean_—Dear Angelica! (soothingly.)

_Angelica_—No, no, do not speak against it! I know there _is_ a world
above. I know it. I feel it. O, let us go there! Let us go up through
this flue and find it!

_Jean_—Why, Angelica, if there had been such a thing, your mother would
have told you and old Jacques would surely have known about it.

_Angelica_—Then I shall ask mother,—and now! For I feel that I cannot
wait; I must know. I shall ask mother; I shall make her tell.

_Jean_—And shall I go and ask old Jacques?

_Angelica_—Do you do so, and come to tell me again. Come here in an
hour, here to the Bridge. Good bye, Jean! Good bye! We must find The
World Above!

(Jean watches Angelica go into the hut and then passes slowly across the
gallery and disappears in one of the Blind Alleys.)


                               Scene II.

(Another part of the Darker Realm. The walls are of long blocks of stone
set irregularly together; gigantic fungi grow in distorted protrusions
from the interstices, and water drips from their outreaching fantastic
fingers. The blackness of darkness shows in portals opening on various
passages. Some disused tool carts and heaps of debris are piled up at
the side. A flaming torch in a cresset gives an irregular and eerie
light like flashes of blue lightning. The tracks for tool carts pass
along the floor of the tunnel. The sound of water flowing in some
under-ground channel is heard. Jean and Angelica enter from opposite
sides and meet.)

_Angelica_—O Jean, O Jean! What I have seen! What have I seen!

_Jean_—What, what? How came you here, Angelica?

_Angelica_—I was impatient to see you and so I came to meet you and on
the way—O, I saw, I saw—what do you think?

_Jean_—I cannot guess. Here, come and rest yourself; sit here and do not
tremble so. (He leads her to a seat on a broken bench.)

_Angelica_—I saw—(clasping her hands in ecstacy) a saint immortal!

_Jean_—Saint immortal,—what is that?

_Angelica_—A saint immortal? Do you not know? Why, that is one of the
happy beings that live in the world above! Mother sings about it, you
know: “Where saints immortal reign,” she sings. That’s in the “land of
pure delight.”

_Jean_—Dear Angelica! Never mind about that now. Come, rest awhile and
get over this excitement. Let us talk about our childhood and the happy
days we spent together playing around the well-sweep in the Blind Alleys
and the games and that poor Prince and all the—

_Angelica_—Jean, are you crazy?

_Jean_—No, (laughing) but I think you are, talking about saints immortal
and The World Above and all those impossible dreams of yours.

_Angelica_—But now, listen! (She lays her hand on his arm.) As I was
coming from our hut—have I told you what mother said? and—

_Jean_—Why, no, you have not yet. I think you were going to, but—tell me
about your vision, if you want to, first.

_Angelica_—And what did old Jacques say? I am sure he said exactly what
mother did when I crowded her down to it, that there _is_—

_Jean_—(Sadly) I couldn’t find old Jacques. He may have gone off to your
world above, for anything I know (sarcastically).

_Angelica_—O Jean, do not be so hard of heart! Let me tell you! Do you
know, I found mother singing that song she loves so to sing——

_Jean_—(Laughing) Well, what has that to do with the matter?

_Angelica_—Why, it’s all about The World Above, the song itself is about
that. Listen! (She sings.)

                   “There is a land of pure delight,
                     Where saints immortal reign.
                   Infinite day excludes the night,
                     And pleasures banish pain.”

And here it is about the “spring.” (Sings again).

                   “There everlasting spring abides,
                     And never-fading flowers;
                   Death, like a narrow sea, divides
                     This heavenly land from ours.”

_Jean_—It is a beautiful song, dear.

_Angelica_—Yes, Jean, (she speaks most solemnly) Mother says there _is_
a world above this, that there really is; and now, it may be old Jacques
has gone there, and if he has, I am sure I am very glad, for up there
everything is beautiful and colored with all the colors in this opal,
and everybody is happy there.

_Jean_—(Very sadly) Angelica, do you really believe all this?

_Angelica_—I did believe it before, and now I know it.

_Jean_—And does it make you glad to believe it?

_Angelica_—Yes (with a long ecstatic breathing); but if you believed it,
I should be all the more certain of it, and if the belief made you glad,
it would make me all the more glad.

_Jean_—But why, then, if your mother knew about this, did she not tell
you before? Why did she not talk with you about it?

_Angelica_—Ah, Jean, that was the first thing I said. I don’t like to
tell you what she answered.

_Jean_—But tell me; for am I not the same as yourself?

_Angelica_—She said she had not told me because—because—she was afraid I
would fret to go there, and she did not want me to, she wanted me to be
content to stay here with her. Besides, she said, it might make me blind
to go there—I do not know why. But now father has gone; three days he
has been gone; such a thing never happened before, and mother fears he
has gone to The World Above and will never come back.

_Jean_—He will, of course,—unless—unless—a break in some blind alley has
caught him!

_Angelica_—Do not frighten me! That cannot be. I will not believe it. He
has gone to The World Above and I am glad he has!

_Jean_—But now, Angelica, if there were a world above, how did we happen
to be in The Darker Realm, instead of in that one? We must have come
from that world to this?

_Angelica_—Oh! Think of that! (She clasps her hands in an ecstacy.) And
do you remember ought about it, dear Jean?

_Jean_—(Very sadly.) I only remember old Jacques.

_Angelica_—I, at any rate, must have come from some world above, for I
think I remember, or rather, I feel dimly a remembering like to a faint
breathing as sweet as an—as an “everlasting spring,” Jean. (Angelica
sits musing and Jean gazes upon her. A pause. Then he says, tenderly:)

_Jean_—But why don’t you tell me what it was you saw?

_Angelica_—(Starting up again excitedly) O, words could not tell it!
Jean, heart of man could not dream of the wonder of it!

_Jean_—But what was it? What was it, to deserve all this?

_Angelica_—I’ll try to tell. As I came by the Little Cross of Miracles,
I looked up through the flue and at the top I saw that there was an
opening—an opening out, Jean! At first I could not look, it pierced and
pricked my eyes like sharpest knives; but after a while, I had to look;
and through the opening I saw a face, a face, Jean!—the face of a maiden
like myself, with eyes looking down at me with looks of curiosity, and
oh, Jean!—of love; and they shone like lamps! But her hair looked like
the gold of my ring, and around her neck her dress was like the red
dartings in the opal; and then, oh, she looked down with a gaze that
turned from curiosity and love to sorrow and almost to horror! And then
she moved back and went away! Yet, as she arose, I saw her form for one
brief moment. Her movements were like the shadows of the light upon the
water where it flows beneath the bridge by our hut in the Court of Blind
Alleys. And all the colors of the opal were upon her and around her, and
beyond her a most clear and shining blue, that dazzled and hurt my eyes
so that I could not look upon it at all. And I saw a wall, not dark like
these around here, but colored like the opal when it is asleep; and
there were things like these (laying her hand on one of the outreaching
fungi), only finer and all in masses, much more beautiful and of a color
like—but I cannot tell you what it was like; it was like nothing that we
have here, but it was soft and comforting. I could have looked at it
always, and never I am sure would I have had to rest my eyes for aching.
(Turning suddenly to Jean) Do you not believe it now?

_Jean_—What, that this vision of yours was anything but a dream?

_Angelica_—Yes.

_Jean_—When you, dear dreamer, are always dreaming?

_Angelica_—But what, then, was that beautiful creature that I saw above
the open trap? Was she not one of the “saints immortal” mother sings
about?

_Jean_—What was it? O, that was a vision, a something that passed across
your eye-balls, a sort of defect in your sight.

_Angelica_—Ah, that will not do, you cannot explain it in that way, you
cannot, you cannot!

_Jean_—Yes, this is how it is. Listen, dear! You know the shadows of the
swinging lamp as they reflect on the water and then back on the glass
above, make just such strange pictures. We have often watched them
together. Don’t you remember, dear, once when—

_Angelica_—But the trap was open and above I saw a sheet of jewel like
my ring when I hold it up to the candle, and at the side I saw a wall
but clearer and brighter than any wall in all The Darker Realm. It
fairly glistened. Tell me, have you never seen such a vision in all your
life?

_Jean_—No, dear Angelica.

_Angelica_—Nor ever seen any opening above that seemed to lead out into
a place far brighter and more beautiful than this?

_Jean_—No, dearest Angelica.

_Angelica_—And did you never in all your travels from one part of The
Darker Realm to another, did you never find a gallery that seemed to
lead outward?

_Jean_—No, dearest.

_Angelica_—And did you never have a sort of feeling within that there
must be a world above, to account for this in fact,—to account for
ourselves if for no other reason?

_Jean_—What kind of a queer feeling might that be?

_Angelica_—Well, let me see, how can I tell you! Perhaps something like
this. Have you ever lost your way?

_Jean_—Oh, no, that is, not many times—only once.

_Angelica_—Well, what did you do?

_Jean_—I considered.

_Angelica_—You considered? What good did that do?

_Jean_—Why, I considered where I was and that I came from the direction
I came from, and so I turned and went back in that direction; and when I
came to the point where I turned down, then I turned, and when I had
gone as far as I did in coming, then I stopped again and considered and
decided which way to take, and so I simply decided at each step and
pretty soon I was at the Great Cross and then I knew the way like my own
fingers.

_Angelica_—But I, when I was lost, stopped and listened, and in my soul
I heard a Voice telling me to go this way to the right, and pretty soon
to stop and turn off and so I turned off, and by and by I heard the
voice again saying, “stop and turn;” and again, “now to the right” and
then; “turn down the little way;” and then at last, “turn by the wheel;”
and then I reached the Great Cross; and so I crept along, listening all
the way, and at last reached our hut.

_Jean_—Now what might that Voice be?

_Angelica_—Jean, I do not know; but I have sometimes thought—don’t
laugh!—but I have sometimes thought the Voice came from this wonderful
ring of mine; at any rate, when I do what the Voice says, the opal glows
out so in the dark that I cannot keep from singing.

_Jean_—But suppose you do not do what the Voice says?

_Angelica_—Then the ring fades down as if it were disappointed and
saddened.

_Jean_—Angelica, you are a wonderful dreamer. But I don’t really see
much difference between your way and mine, only that what you call the
Voice, I call considering. That’s all the difference.

_Angelica_—O no, but there is a great deal more difference than just
that, for I heard other voices too. Do you never hear voices?

_Jean_—No, never! Never heard a one.

_Angelica_—Never heard your mother’s voice?

_Jean_—Mother’s? No. I was too little when she disappeared anyway; I
never knew anything about her.

_Angelica_—Well, old Jacques, then; he has been like a mother to you. Do
you never hear him when you are far away in the galleries and the light
has gone out and you don’t know the way—do you never hear him calling,
or rather not exactly calling, but sort o’ pulling and drawing you in
your soul as if you had to move toward him and reach him somehow?

_Jean_—O, yes, once I remember—when I had to stay all night in the
Triangle Branch. I had no cot to lie on but only just a bench and it was
very hard and I wanted old Jacques very much and I seemed, I think I
seemed to feel—what you call—a “pulling” then. I was very cross I know
and I—cried.

_Angelica_—(Laughing) Of course, for you were a very little boy. It may
be you felt a pulling then, but I think (hesitatingly) it was just
homesickness,—just homesickness, Jean. (With a long sigh) I am afraid I
can’t make you understand what I mean by pulling. But (more cheerfully)
you’ll understand sometime.

_Jean_—When shall I understand, Angelica?

_Angelica_—O, when we are in The World Above!

_Jean_—(Laughing) Angelica, I see there is no use trying to teach you
sense!

_Angelica_—Jean, I see there is no use trying to make you see the truth!
And as long as you laugh at me, of course I cannot tell you what I in my
inmost soul have thought.

_Jean_—Come then, (condescendingly,) I will not laugh, dear child!

_Angelica_—(Pouting) No, that will not do, either!

_Jean_—How, then?

_Angelica_—Why, lovingly—(she pauses).

_Jean_—You did not mean to say that? Then say it now and mean it! Dear
one, why be so shy of me? I love you and always have loved you; you know
it! You love me,—it must be so. Let us enjoy it. What else have we worth
talking of in all The Darker Realm? Come, tell me!

_Angelica_—Yes, dear Jean, I am listening.

_Jean_—And with all the loving that lives and burns in me, I will listen
to everything you have in your heart. If it is your thought, I love it,
no matter what it is.

_Angelica_—Then listen, listen with the heart! (She seats herself more
comfortably by his side and raising her forefinger to enforce what she
says, begins.) When I have stood on the bridge in the Center of Blind
Alleys and gazed down into the water that flows and flows so black and
ceaselessly below, I have seen—

_Jean_—Well, what then? Some of your visions, with robes of red and hair
of gold color, and walls of opal?

_Angelica_—There, now! You said you would listen believingly!

_Jean_—I will, I will! My heart is here.

_Angelica_—But I want head, too.

_Jean_—Teasingly grasping one! You want too much.

_Angelica_—With solemnity even this you must give, if you hear my story.
I feel that you can not understand my story unless you give both!

_Jean_—Both, all, anything; they are yours, Angelica! Tell me about
these visions upon the flowing water.

_Angelica_—Shadows seemed to fall there, of all shapes and forms.

_Jean_—Is that all? And was this puzzling to you? I can explain it all.
Now, these shadows were, of course, the reflection from the
cresset-light, that fell upon the water and then flew back again to your
dear little eyes; that was all. Do you see, dear?

_Angelica_—But that was not all. There was more of it!

_Jean_—What, then?

_Angelica_—Once when I was standing and watching, there came a sudden
change; the cresset-light went out! I looked and it was as black on the
wall as the quicksand pond in the Court of Miracles. Then I looked down
to the water again. The light from the flue came down a little less
dimly than it did when the cresset was burning, and in a minute, dearest
Jean, the self-same shadows began to flicker and fall and pass like the
faint images of many graceful beings moving very swiftly to and fro
above. I turned as cold as any stone when I saw this! Aha, that vision
you cannot explain!

_Jean_—But, dear, I can. These were still reflections, the cresset
reflections that had been, as it were, left over. They were tossed down
to the moving water, from the water they were tossed up into the flue,
and when the light in the cresset went out, these that were stored in
the flue had still to fall.

_Angelica_—But this went on and on; this kept going on!

_Jean_—Then there were a great many left over to fall, a sort of
accumulation of them.

_Angelica_—That sounds well, and it may be so, yet it does not fully
satisfy me. And there is something else!

_Jean_—More wonders?

_Angelica_—Yes; listen with heart and head; you know you promised.

_Jean_—I will keep my promise, dear love.

_Angelica_—You hear this roar?

_Jean_—Of course, the water in the Great River, you mean?

_Angelica_—Yes, Jean. (She draws nearer and speaks very low) Jean, I
have heard another roar!

_Jean_—Then there I am with you. I have, too; in fact, I have heard many
kinds of roars. The river has a very different sound from the Chain Tube
and the Chain Tube from the conduit in the Rubble Corridor and each
air-passage has a sound of its own. Of course you could not be expected
to have learned this, but they are common facts known to all that study
into the laws and systems of The Darker Realm in which we live.

_Angelica_—Yes, I, too, have ears and I know all the tones and voices of
all the conduits that pass through this part of The Darker Realm. But
this roar that I mean is different from them all. It is as different as
your voice is from mine. It is more dim and fine than any common roar;
yet there are many, many tones mingled in it—oh, more than you could
ever count! And they are different kinds of sounds, yet all blending
into one. O, it stands alone, it is quite unlike any other sound in all
our galleries. And when I stand on the bridge by the door of the
air-conduit, and drink in the good air that makes me feel strong and
that mother says I must breathe all I can of because what she calls
“everlasting spring” abides in it, then it is I hear it. But I do not
always hear it even there. It has times and seasons. Sometimes it twines
in with the roar in the air-conduit and sometimes not. I can now almost
tell when it will begin and when it will end. But, Jean, the strange
thing about it is this: when I go away from the sound of the water in
the Great River, this roar grows more clear; in fact, the farther I go,
the more plainly I hear this strange spirit-like, tumultuous, sound.
Therefore, it cannot be the rushing of the water or of the air that
causes it. It is something quite distinct and unaccounted for by
anything in our Realm. You can say nothing to this!

_Jean_—(Sadly) Nothing, dear, except that I have not the fine sense that
sees all this and therefore I cannot dream your dreams with you. But if
you believe them and they make you happy, I am glad for you.

_Angelica_—But tell me, have you never seen one single vision? Nor heard
the soft-sounding roar from above? Nor caught a glimpse of the shadows
in the dim radiance of the flue?

_Jean_—No, no, none of all these things.

_Angelica_—And when you have looked down from the bridge into the
aqueduct and have seen the water flowing, flowing, have you not asked
yourself whence it comes, and whither it is going? And also why it
flows,—ever flows? And have you not longed to go on with it and follow
it in its current until you found out where it was going to? Following
the way the water flows, would not that lead us to some explanation of
what it all means?

_Jean_—But what is the use, beloved Angelica, of our bothering our heads
with these questions when it is plainly impossible to find any answers
whatever?

_Angelica_—I cannot help it. I _must_ bother my head! O, have you never
in all your travels seen anything, anything, like an opening outward?

_Jean_—No, love; yet that I may not be quite outdone by you in telling
about wonders, I will tell you of something that happened to me once, in
which I dare say you, if it had happened to you, might have found a
dream of The World Above.

_Angelica_—Ah, tell me, tell me!

_Jean_—Do not expect too much. It was only this. I remember that once
when I was down on what they call the Grand Canal, I there saw something
that I at any rate could not understand. I saw a dim light in the center
of the tunnel and as I drew nearer it grew greater and greater until it
shone so that it seemed to shoot sharp knives into my eyes. I could not
bear the pain and so I turned back. You, I suppose, would have rushed
forward and gazed upon it and spoiled your eyesight forever and never
have been able to see anything in our Darker Realm again.

_Angelica_—(Excitedly) It was an opening. It was, it was! Lead me there,
take me there! O take me there at once!

_Jean_—It is not for a moment to be thought of! Not for you, dear. It is
far away, and the new breaks are all down on that side, and you are not
strong enough to attempt it. And you could not look upon it; you know
your mother said so. She told you it would make you blind.

_Angelica_—Ah, I do not care! Let me go! I am strong; let me go! I will
risk the eyes!

_Jean_—If you bid me I will go and see whether I can find it again; but
you—

_Angelica_—Jean, you do not know how strong I am. I have done as mother
bade me; I have breathed in the breath of the everlasting spring, and I
am strong enough to go. Mother would let me—I would _make_ her let me
go! And we would then come and tell her! Ah, let me go and see at least
if that gallery is still open and if—in case we wished to—we could go by
that way to The World Above. Come, come, dear Jean, will you come? (She
draws Jean to his feet and pulls him excitedly on.)

_Jean_—But, Angelica—

_Angelica_—Come, come! In what direction is it? Only tell me that!

_Jean_—I have forgotten exactly where it was, but it was down the Grand
Canal and beyond the Great Cross; it is likely that it was some strange
affliction of my eyes that seized me; only that, dear Angelica!

_Angelica_—No, no; we must try to find it. We must at least go there and
have one look outward. (With determination) Jean, if you do not come
with me, I shall go alone, and I shall wander till I find.

_Jean_—No, no, dear! Never think of doing such a thing!

_Angelica_—I shall! I am going now! (She flies along the passage, and
then stops and gazes back upon Jean. She looks like a spirit shining out
in the darkness). Are you coming? I am going on!

_Jean_—Then go on, Angelica; I will come with you. I am coming, I am
coming! (Both figures pass under the arch of masonry fringed with its
grotesque fungi, and disappear into the black darkness).


                               Scene III.

(A spacious gallery in The Darker Realm, where a gateway opens out and
lets in a flood of dazzling light. Graceful vines entwine the arch and
move quietly in the wind, while beyond the opening spreads the blue and
glittering surface of a river. Many gay-colored river-crafts ply up and
down in the distance, and the varied sounds of city life send a pleasant
murmur to the ear. Beyond all are banks of green, church spires, and a
strip of sky that is ripening in color toward sunset. Beneath the arch
at the right, steps of stone masonry lead down into the waters and
disappear in the transparent depths; a stone foot-path leads from the
left along the side of the gallery, and the walls are trellised here and
there with little trailing fingers of moss. Jean and Angelica enter from
the dark gallery and follow along the embanked stone foot-path. Angelica
moves as though her physical strength were exhausted while Jean supports
her form and seems to urge her forward.)

_Jean_—Dear Angelica, come but a little farther!

_Angelica_—I can go no farther; I am breathless; I am faint.

_Jean_—Ah, yes, bear up, dear; lean on me.

_Angelica_—My eyes, my eyes!

_Jean_—Close your eyes for awhile; I will lead you. Then when they are
rested, you can open them and look through the gateway. Now we have come
so far and suffered so much, you must not lose the sight you have so
longed to see.

_Angelica_—The stones are more slimy, more slippery, at every step.

_Jean_—But let me lead you; take my hand.

_Angelica_—(She reaches out uncertainly and instead of touching his
hand, touches the masonry of stone.) The wall! (A shudder passes over
her.)

_Jean_—Here, dear! (He clasps her arm and draws her hand away from the
wall.)

_Angelica_—My eyes have prickles in them; I can scarcely see. When I
look at that great red eye before us yonder, a thousand points jut out
and fly to me and hit me in my eyes.

_Jean_—But that great red eye must be the opening, dear. That is where
we reach The World Above.

_Angelica_—Then I do not want to reach The World Above, for nothing but
pain comes to me from that great red eye.

_Jean_—But I feel certain that we must go through that opening and when
we get there I am sure that we shall scarcely know that we are coming
into light. My eyes are quite used to it now, at least so that they do
not prickle any more, and I can make out some beautiful things.

_Angelica_—What? Tell me what, for I shall never see it myself.

_Jean_—Yes, you will. Believe me, it is only a little further, only a
little more weariness and pain and we shall be there. When I saw what
you were willing to go through to reach this gateway, what suffering to
endure, what dangers to risk, I began to believe with you, and now we
have our reward, for here we are with the gate right at hand.

_Angelica_—But I am too tired!

_Jean_—Then let us rest here a little before we take the last steps, and
let us get our eyes used to the opaline lights. And see, we have much
more light now; I can see you better, and you could see me better if you
would but take your hand down from your eyes and look at me. (She slowly
looks around and bends her eyes upon him.)

_Angelica_—I cannot see you at all. Oh, where are you? Have you left me
alone?

_Jean_—No, dear, no! Here I am, by your side.

_Angelica_—Am I turned blind?

_Jean_—O, no, it was because your eyes had rested for a moment on the
light of the gateway and when you turned to me you could not bear the
contrast of the darkness. But look and see! In this new light can you
not see me better?

_Angelica_—I—see—you—better. (She slowly draws back with a frightened
look in her eyes) I never saw you look like that!

_Jean_—I never saw you look so beautiful, Angelica.

_Angelica_—I never saw you look so—like this. O, who is this? Who are
you? (almost crying) Where is my Jean?

_Jean_—Why, what is the matter? I am Jean! Put your hand on my face and
you will find that I am Jean, just the same as always. (She lays her
delicate hand on his brow and draws it down over his eyes and lips, then
draws it away with a long sigh and closes her eyes; he snatches her hand
back and kisses it passionately.) Ah, Aho is it now? (breathlessly.) Is
it Jean, or is it not Jean?

_Angelica_—It is Jean that kissed me. It is not Jean that my eyes rest
on. Your face has a thousand things in it that I never saw before. There
are lines and wrinkles and furrows; there are shadows and shrinkings;
there are marks and scars; there are pains and miseries. I did not know
you were so sad and burdened and broken-hearted and miserable, and—

_Jean_—O what, O what?

_Angelica_—Is there shame? Are you ashamed of something? Have you done
something wicked, some dreadful, dreadful wickedness?

_Jean_—O, when you look at me, Angelica, I am full of shame. I am
crushed to the stones with shame. Do not look at me so, I cannot bear
it. (He covers his face with his hands).

_Angelica_—But, yes, I must look at you; I must know this face, sad and
furrowed as it is. Take away your hands; let me see your eyes!

_Jean_—Then see, and I will tell you why your look pains me to the heart
and why I cannot lift my eyes to yours. When I was—

_Angelica_—Hush! (She speaks imperatively and puts her hand over his
mouth but he pulls it away.)

_Jean_—But why? You wanted to know, and now I want to tell you; I will
tell you every bad thing I ever did!

_Angelica_—No, no, no, no! I will not hear! I will stop my ears. I do
not want to hear. Not a word, not a word!

_Jean_—But it is the truth and I want you to know the truth, all the
truth.

_Angelica_—I know the truth, I see the truth in your face, all of the
truth that I want to know; I see it in the lines and shadows beneath
your eyes.

_Jean_—But if I do not tell you more, you will find it out yourself and
then you will not love me!

_Angelica_—Telling or not telling will not change my love. I have loved
you—

_Jean_—_Have_ loved me!—

_Angelica_—I have begun to love you. Love for you has begun in my heart,
and what is begun must go on. You are you! I see it in the light from
the great eye of The World Above, and if you are you, what matters
anything you or all the people in The World Above could tell me? You are
you, that is enough!

_Jean_—But is it better to know that I am I, though my face or even the
whole of me changes, is it better to know this than to know anything
else in the world? Is it better? Is it? O let me hear you say!

_Angelica_—(She laughs a soft laugh of contentment;) It is so! It is
better!

_Jean_—You are you, and I am I, and we are together, together, together!
(She throws her arms around his neck and lets her head rest against his.
He draws her close to his side. Then they rest for a long time in quiet
and finally she turns and looks again toward the light at the opening of
the gallery.)

_Angelica_—(Whispering.) The light! I cannot look upon it, but I know it
is the light!

_Jean_—(Softly). Yes, dear, it is the light from The World Above,
shining in on us as we sit here together.

_Angelica_—(Whispering.) Together! Shall we be always together?

_Jean_—Always, dear, so long as you are you and I am I!

_Angelica_—And shall you be always you?

_Jean_—Always, dear. I cannot be otherwise than myself, can I? (Laughing
a little.)

_Angelica_—Of course not. I knew that always. I knew that from the
beginning.

_Jean_—No, you didn’t; you never knew it till I proved it to you, proved
it by the light from The World Above that shone upon our faces.

_Angelica_—(Laughing joyously.) I cannot tell you anything because you
always prove things out, can I?

_Jean_—(Laughing in his turn.) I cannot tell you anything because you
always know without any proving, don’t you? But are you ready now to try
to reach the gateway? Shall I lift you, dear? Shall we go on?

_Angelica_—But I am so tired. It was such a long way we came. I would
fain stay here always with your arms around me. I do not care if we
never reach The World Above!

_Jean_—But if we go on, you will still have me with you and have The
World Above besides!

_Angelica_—And the light!

_Jean_—Yes, and the light! You know how you loved that and how you have
longed for it.

_Angelica_—Yet when I look at it I shrink back—if that great eye that
shoots out terrors toward me and gives me more pain than joy be really
the light I have longed for! Ah, Mother! She said the light of The World
Above would blind my eyes. Dear Mother! I want her!

_Jean_—But if we should try to go back, we could not find our way to her
now. We must go on. We will wait till our eyes are a little stronger and
can bear the light; for it is the light! It must be, since we have
traced it by every trap we have passed. Every one was larger than the
one before, you know, but it was always the same thing, always something
we knew by our eyes. This one before us is only a light larger and
clearer than any of the others; only that, a larger light than a candle,
larger than a lantern, larger than any of the traps that let down light
from above into The Darker Realm.

_Angelica_—I am sure it is as you say, dear Jean, and perhaps when we
have passed through the gateway and are really in the light, in the
light itself, with light, light, light, pouring around us and bathing us
on every side—

_Jean_—Yes, perhaps when we are in the very midst of it, it won’t hurt
our eyes so much.

_Angelica_—Beautiful—most beautiful! And perhaps we shall be a part of
it, one with it, and responding to it. Then, if that were so, it could
not hurt us but we should revel in it, as I being a part of you, dear,
take joy in you. Could that be so, do you think?

_Jean_—When you say it, dearest, I am sure of it, for you yourself are
light, you shine so! (embracing her.) May I lift you now and shall we go
on? (Jean supports Angelica on his arm and tenderly leads her on. The
two approach the steps where they lead down into the water.)

_Angelica_—Must we go through all this, do you think, before we can be
in The World Above?

_Jean_—I believe so, dearest, yes. Are you not rested a little?

_Angelica_—O yes, I feel much stronger! And you are with me! That is
enough! Hark! Listen, Jean!

_Jean_—Yes, dearest.

_Angelica_—I hear voices, happy voices! Ah, beautiful voices! Look,
Jean, and tell what it is!

_Jean_—I see many people; they are coming in boats. They come very near,
and they look this way most pleasantly.

_Angelica_—(Whispering) Are they the “saints immortal”?

_Jean_—I think they must be, dearest Angelica.

_Angelica_—Oh, Jean, dearest, dearest Jean! (A pause.) Stay with me,
Jean! (She puts one arm about Jean’s neck and rests her face down,
covering her eyes from the light.)

_Jean_—Angelica, love, cling to me and I will buoy you and lead you.
(They touch their feet to the water’s edge.)

_Angelica_—The water! (She says it breathlessly.) Must we step in?

_Jean_—But look onward, onward, beloved! (They slowly move down the
steps into the water. Jean clings to the stone buttress and supports
Angelica.)

_Angelica_—The water is deeper. (She shrinks back terrified.) I feel a
something drawing my feet, drawing me away from you. O, where are you,
Jean? (She reaches out her arms and moves them blindly. Jean, in the
utmost tenderness, brings them to his neck.)

_Jean_—Here I am, dear! If you cannot see as they see in the light of
The World Above, you can still know that it is I, even by the self-same
way you knew me in The Darker Realm. Put your hand on my face, if the
light blinds your eyes, and then you will know.

(She lays her hand lightly on his brow. Then with a long sigh of bliss:)

_Angelica_—Ah! (A pause.) Yes, it is still you! I am still with you! (A
pause. Jean sustains her strongly and tenderly as they move on into
deeper water. Then their voices are heard from a little distance.) Are
you there, dear Jean?

_Jean_—Here I am, Angelica, my beloved!

(The current flows strongly in and softly draws the two lovers onward.
They pass out beneath the stone archway into the full, bright day. As
they move from beneath the sharply-cut outline of the shadow and emerge
into the glow of the level sunset rays, a halo of light seems to
enwreathe the heads of youth and maiden, and their faces shine as if
transfigured. The joyous welcoming voices come nearer—one can almost
understand what they say! Jean and Angelica float together, buoyed
safely by the current, out into the river. Some pleasure-barges pass
very near, trailing garlands of flowers; the laughter of the rowers is
heard, then the sweet sound dies along the rippling surface of the
water. A fleet messenger-boat has put forth from the opposite shore and
is seen to thread its way among the myriad river-craft; it approaches;
it stops for a moment in mid-stream. The sun sets; floods of glory
stream out over the city. Evening bells are heard chiming forth the
strains of a triumphant hymn:

[Music]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Retained anachronistic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as
      printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The World Above, by Martha Foote Crow

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WORLD ABOVE ***

***** This file should be named 60297-0.txt or 60297-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/2/9/60297/

Produced by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

